# RB_Module_20_credit_risk_classification

## Credit Risk Classification Project

### Project Overview

In this Challenge, you’ll use various techniques to train and evaluate a model based on loan risk. You’ll use a dataset of historical lending activity from a peer-to-peer lending services company to build a model that can identify the creditworthiness of borrowers.

### Files used by the project

    Resources/lending_data.csv                   : Source input file
    Credit_Risk/credit_risk_classification.ipynb : Jupyter Notebook Source Code
    Credit_Risk/credit_risk_classification.py    : Pure Python Source Code
    Output/credit_risk_classification.TXT        : Execution outputs generated by the python script.
    Output/credit_risk_classification_report     : Detailed analysis of the product of the project.
                                                   Also included in the readme document

### Project Requirements

    According to Module_20_Challenge_Credit_Risk_Classification.PDF 
                                  (also present in this repository)

## Module_20_Challenge_Credit_Risk_Classification Analysis Report

## Overview of the Analysis

In this section, describe the analysis you completed for the machine learning models used in this Challenge. This might include:

* Explain the purpose of the analysis.

  * In this Challenge, we build models that can identify creditworthiness of borrowers.
  * The effectiveness of the models are also evaluated.

* Explain what financial information the data was on, and what you needed to predict.
* The source information was comprised of:
  
  * loan_size
  * interest_rate
  * borrower_income
  * debt_to_income
  * num_of_accounts
  * derogatory_marks
  * total_debt
  * loan_status

  Loan Status is the information we want to analyze and predict. It indicates what is the current disposition of a loan:

  * A value of 0 in the “loan_status” column means that the loan is healthy.
  * A value of 1 means that the loan has a high risk of defaulting.

* Provide basic information about the variables you were trying to predict (e.g., `value_counts`).

  * There is a total of 77536 entries in the source file
  * There is a total of 75036 loans with Status 0 (healthy)
  * There is a total of  2500 loans in risk of defaulting

* Describe the stages of the machine learning process you went through as part of this analysis.

  The stages are fully documented in the source code of the Python Script and they follow the suggested approach in the Starter_Code.

* Briefly touch on any methods you used (e.g., `LogisticRegression`, or any resampling method).

  Two methods were used in this project: Logistic Regression and Logistic Regression with Resample Training Data

## Results

Using bulleted lists, describe the balanced accuracy scores and the precision and recall scores of all machine learning models.

* Machine Learning Model 1: Logistic Regression
  * Description of Model 1 Accuracy, Precision, and Recall scores.
    * Balanced Accuracy Score : 0.9520479254722232
    * Confusion Matrix:
      * cf test matrix :
        [[18663   102]
         [   56   563]]
      * classification report:

                      precision    recall  f1-score   support

                   0       1.00      0.99      1.00     18765
                   1       0.85      0.91      0.88       619

            accuracy                           0.99     19384
           macro avg       0.92      0.95      0.94     19384
        weighted avg       0.99      0.99      0.99     19384

* Machine Learning Model 2: Logistic Regression with Resample Training Data
  * Description of Model 2 Accuracy, Precision, and Recall scores.
    * Balanced Accuracy Score : 0.9945026387334079
    * Confusion Matrix:
      * CF Matrix :
       [[74614   422]
        [  403 74633]]
      * classification report:
                      precision    recall  f1-score   support

                   0       0.99      0.99      0.99     75036
                   1       0.99      0.99      0.99     75036

            accuracy                           0.99    150072
           macro avg       0.99      0.99      0.99    150072
        weighted avg       0.99      0.99      0.99    150072

## Summary

Summarize the results of the machine learning models, and include a recommendation on the model to use, if any. For example:

* Which one seems to perform best? How do you know it performs best?
  The second model demonstrates better indexes, but by a very small margin.**
* Does performance depend on the problem we are trying to solve? (For example, is it more important  to predict the `1`'s, or predict the `0`'s? )
  Performance, understood as how accurate the prediction is, does not depend on what state it is trying to predict, but more important than that is the amount of information: the more input information the better the model would behave.

* If you do not recommend any of the models, please justify your reasoning.
  We can recommend both models, but again , the second is a bit better than the first.
